[MUSIC]
In this video, we'll see different
tricks that are very useful for
training Gaussian process.
And the first one is, what you should
do when you see noisy observations?
As youremember the mean would go
exactly through the data points, and
also the covariance, and actually variance
would be zero at the data points.
And if you fit the Gaussian
process to a noisy signal
like this you will get this
quickly changing function.
But actually you can see that there
is something like a parabola here,
and also some noise component.
So let's modify our model in
a way that it will have some
notion of the noise in the data.
The simplest way to do this is
to add the independent Gaussian
noise to all random variables.
So have some new random variable f hat.
It would be equal to the original
random process f of x plus some new
independent Gaussian noise.
This means that,
we'll independently sample it for
each point of our space rd,
that is different axis.
We'll say that the mean of the noise is 0,
and the variance would be s squared.
In this case, the mean of
the random process was to be 0.
Since we have the sum of two means,
the mean of f of x and epsilon,
and those sum up to 0.
And the covariance would
change in the following way.
The new covariance would be the old
covariance K of xi minus xj,
plus s squared, the variance of the noise.
As an indicator that the points xi and
xj are the same.
This happened since there's
no covariance between
the noise samples in different positions.
And if we fit the model using this
covariance matrix using this kernel,
we will get the following result.
So as you can see, we don't have
the 0 variance data points anymore.
And also the mean function
became a bit smoother.
However, this still isn't
the best we can have.
We can change the parameters
of the kernel a bit, and
find the optimal values for
them, in this special case.
If for example we have
the length scale equal to 0.01,
the covariance will drop really quickly
to 0 as we move away from the points.
And so
the prediction would look like this.
And this is like the complete garbage.
If we take the length scale to be equal
to 10, then it would be too high.
And the prediction will
change through really slowly.
And it would be 0 almost however and
the variance would be like two the basic
the variance of the prior process.
So here we select the l to be 2,
somewhere in the middle, and
we'll have the process like this.
It actually has some drawbacks, since
as you can see, at the position -3 and
3, the process could create and
starts to reverse its prediction to 0.
So maybe we could change some
other parameters a bit better,
like just letting sigma squared or
x squared.
And maybe we'll be able to feed
Gaussian processing better and
actually it turns out that we can so
this automatically.
We can have all our parameters for
the Gaussian kernel will have
sigma squared parameter,
l, and s squared, so three parameters.
We're going to tune them by
maximizing the likelihood.
So we take our data points,
f of x1, f of x2 sub 1, f of xn and
maximize the probability of this data
process to observe given the parameters.
Since everything is Gaussian for
Gaussian process, it will be also Gaussian
with mean 0 and the covariance matrix c
as we have seen in the previous video.
If you write down what the probability
just fraction is equal to read carefully.
You will see that you can optimize this
value using simply the gradient ascent.
And using this you will be able to
automatically find the optimal values for
the variance sigma squared, the variance s
squared, and the length scale parameter l.
So if you run this procedure,
you will get something like this.
So we estimated l to be 2,
which actually is true.
However, we spent some
time doing it by hand, and
this value was selected automatically.
Also, we were able to estimate
that the variance of the process
should be 46.4 and
the variance of the noise should be 0.7.
As you can see, also on the boundaries,
the prediction became a bit better.
So the process doesn't reverse
it's direction very quickly.
Let's see how the fitting of this
process works for different data points.
In this case, I tried to fit the Gaussian
process simply into a noise.
In this case,
the Gaussian process estimated that the s
squared parameter versus
the noise should be 0.79.
It really believes that all the data
that I gave him is signal noise.
If I try fit a Gaussian process
into a data that I sampled
without noise,
it will quickly understand it and
will put the noise variance
parameter to almost 0.
So in this case it was like 5
times 10 to the power of -17,
which is actually really close to 0.
If however I have the process that has
some signal but it also has noise,
you automatically find that
the noise variance should
be somewhere in-between 0 and
some larger variables.
In this case it estimated to be 0.13.
All right,
now let's see how Gaussian process can be
applied to classification problems.
Previously we saw how they can be use for
regression, and for
classification it is a bit harder.
So have two labels,
two possible labels plus 1 or -1.
We can use latent process f of x,
this will show something like,
how sure we are in predicting this or
that label.
And if we fit somehow the latent
process f of x, we will be able to do
predictions by passing the latent
process through a sigmoid function.
So the probability of the label
y given f will be simply
an 1 over 1 + exponent of -yf,
which is the sigmoid function
of the products y times f.
So to train this model, you will first
have to estimate the latent process.
You'll have to estimate
the probability of the latent process
in some arbitrary points given
the labels that we already know.
So y1 of x1 for example could be plus 1,
y of x could be -1, and so
those are just binary decisions.
So we estimated the latent process and
then we could use it to
compute the predictions.
We could do this by marginalizing
the general probability of labels and
the latent process.
This would be just the simple intro code,
the probability of the label
given the latent process.
At time the probability
of the latent process and
it is integrated over all
possible latent processes.
So the mess here is a bit complex,
so I'll skip it for
now and
lets just see how the condition works.
So the first step as I said is
estimation of the latent process.
So in this case I have the latent
points marked as crosses here,
some have the value plus 1,
some have the value -1.
And if we fit the latent
processes look like this.
So as you can see, as we go to the area
where all points have the labels +1,
the values for
the latent process would be positive.
And for
the negative examples the probability
of the process will be negative.
And here are our predictions,
I just took the latent process and
[INAUDIBLE].
So as you can see it is almost
one in the positions where there
are many positive points nearby.
The same happens for
the negative examples, and
in the points where the targets
change from plus 1 to -1 for example.
The variance would be high and
the prediction would be,
won't be so certain in this points.
So for example,
somewhere in between -1 and -2,
the value of the prediction
would be somewhere around 0.5.
It is almost absolutely not
sure about the prediction.
One last thing I want to tell you about,
our inducing inputs.
When you train a Gaussian process,
it turns out that it is quite
computationally expensive.
If you have end points then computing
the prediction will cost you
an order of n cube, since you have
to invert the covariance matrix.
There is one simple idea called inducing
inputs to speed up the Gaussian process.
What you could is you could
replace the dataset with a small
number of data points.
For example, those would be
like support points in the SVM.
And then you will try to fit the Gaussian
process using only those points.
You will select end points
as inducing end points.
The precomputing would
cost us m squared times n,
which is quite fast when we
select small number of points.
Computing the mean would be an order of m,
which is almost instantly.
And predicting the variance at h point
will cost us an order of m squared.
You can optimize the position,
so in these primes and
the division for
them using maximal liked destination.
So let's see how it works.
Here I have 100 points and
I fitted the Gaussian process using them.
However here,
I selected 10 points informally, and
fit the Gaussian process into them.
And as you can see, the values of
the Gaussian process didn't change much.
However, the cost of
the prediction is much less,
since we have 10 times less
points than we had before.
[MUSIC]